# tri-twist
todo next:
	fix brain mode chains
	add ui with moves, time, and score
	design randomizer
	hook up sound events
	gravity stuff
		do whole board at once, for simpler state serialization and to fix floating piece bug   
		fix ghost piece not matching real piece (tumbling off a cliff momentum is not shown, dropping a balancing piece next to a falling piece predicts a push when no push will occur)  
		decide what to actually do when tumbling off a cliff
	readability:  
		fix ghost line visibility (maybe 2nd ghost piece)  
		light up ghost piece if it will match?  
		show if ghost will disturb other pieces  
		solid colors should no longer be contiguous, because it looks like they belong together, but they don't  
		light up unmatchable edges in matched piece  



on store page, advertise millions of polygons (my idea)

Tuning settings (*- can ramp for difficulty, based on score or moves or time or some combination):  
	DAS/ARR  
	Rotate allowed  
	Hard drop allowed (the only reason to soft drop is if you want to change piece order and get another, later piece under it with hard drop)  
	Gravity* (ramp to keep pace with other changes only. As gravity gets faster, piece height matters less; matches low down effectively have shorter timers in low gravity. So high gravity kind of gets easier, but high gravity is bad for learning. Instant sounds fun though)  
	Clear timer (including literally 0 and infinite + button or + scaling)* (ramping is weird because it doesn't change the difficulty of match 2, so digging actually gets faster. Could just keep pace with gravity? In that case chain extensions at the bottom of the board would not change difficulty, but top would get harder.)  
	Clear timer scaling (lower numbers could literally never clear until a third is added and that would also work. Technically that's what single triangles are already doing. Could clear instantly at a certain number (although could connect a neighboring chain to extend more… seems powerful, and annoying to do) 
	Sequential chaining mode (have infinite time but a move that does not match will end the chain)  
	# colors* (3-6) (test 6)  
	# previews* (ramping would be weird)  
	Grid size*  
	Ghost piece search depth (0, contact stack, final resting place, final resting place of balancing pieces)* (ramping would be weird, people don't like it in TGM. It could be made better to keep pace with gravity, maybe, but probably just starting with the best version is fine)  
	Hold  
	Nice randomizer* (ramping this would be wild):  
		First two pieces restricted to avoid annoying cases (is it more annoying to have no match possible, or have a forced match? or are both fine?)  
		Bag  
		Puyo 2 randomizer  
		Piece history  
		Piece reroll  
		TGM 3 randomizer  
	Time limit (could have score extension)  
	Piece limit (could have score extension)  
	Score quota (could function as time/piece extension)  
	a chain of sufficient size (maybe the cap?) could award a helpful item piece (either random, specific, or choose based on some controlable criteria like chain length or tucks or color distribution)  

Scope Creep:  
	Character who instead of 4 says 3
		how unthreetunate three you
	Juice in gameplay and menus and characters:  
		Art  
		animations  
		VFX  
		Music  
		SFX  
		color choices (in menu or per character or both)  
	Core singleplayer modes:  
		Custom tuning mode (make this first, for testing)  
		Journey/Novice
			Second half is Triathalon first half  
			Basically this is for new players so that the first half of Triathalon can be less boring for good players (or vice versa)  
		Triathlon (experiment with tuning settings to find a good ramp)  
			Maybe have a grading system that tries to let new players play but serious players be challenged  
		Triple Threat mode with instant gravity and fast pace, focused on survival  
		Novice -> Middle -> Triple Threat could be called Triathalon, actually? Just those 3 difficulties glued together in a different way?  
		Zen mode for people who don't want to stress, and maybe want to learn  
			Can think for as long as you want  
			Can't lose (or have piece limit (w/ score threshold?)  
			Sequential chain mode  
			Can twist  
			Keep track of biggest chain  
		Purify/dig race/Dr mario, just focus on downstacking  
			maybe have some incentive to make small chains, idk what  
			could fill board with unmatched pieces and mark some as "clear these" so you have to dig to them (like purify), and big chain marks more as "clear these". Something like that  
			could fill board with garbage instead of normal pieces. Idk if this would be fun so it's worth testing, especially since garbage might make a good versus mode some day.  
	Shared board local coop seems pretty easy to implement compared to all other forms of multiplayer. Probably worth it.  
	button configuration  
	controller support  
	mobile port  
	Tutorials  

Things that I want but will have to cut:  
	steam leaderboards  
	steam achievements  
	Daily challenge  
	save/share rulesets  
	Chainsim  
	replays  
		watch leaderboard replays  
		export clip/video  
	Mystery/Item mode (see item attacks/buffs in multiplayer)  
	Story mode:  
		Any other mode or item effect can be a stage  
		Could have some floating cells permanently filled as maps  
		Puzzle mode  
		Each stage tracks completion score/time/moves  
			could have stars/goals that gate progress  
			dev records  
		Would love to have story before and after levels  
	Big ruleset changes:  
		Twist mode (basically just bejeweled):  
			Single piece rotate  
			Tumble fill/direct fill  
			Analysis paralysis is a problem  
			Can have no possible moves although it's rareish; need board shakeup like bejewled  
		Literally just Carcassonne  
	Multiplayer:  
		vs cpu  
		GGPO is a C++ module so I could compile the engine with both modules, or remove FMod, or change to FMod GDNative  
		When searching/connecting it should say "Triangulating an opponent"  
		Could have people play 2 single player games side by side and see who wins, either playing a game to completion and seeing who did better, or going over a certain score differential  
		Could have item attacks/buffs like:  
			match anything and whatever matches, mass replace that color with a random other color (probably making a big clear)  
			explode when matched, either in a line or in an area  
			mess with tuning settings (see tuning)  
			Invisible mode  
			All pieces solid colors  
			Piece pairs (this is horrifying)  
			Ice (pieces slide down w/o tumbling and then slide sideways too)  
			Garbage (see garbage)  
		Garbage:  
			come in like:  
				Petal Crash?  
				Tetris (kind of like changing grid size but you can dig out in chunks) (I think I like this one. Only thing I don't like about it is you have to send a FULL line every time. Would need to make the grid big so one line is nbd)  
					another thing: does it do a full diagonal line, putting it lots of extra useless pieces, or mirror stack height but that means you get more if you're doing worse?
						if grid is flat, you just get two lines of garbage, easy
			cleared like:  
				puyo (I think I like this one, because it changes the way you play to shorter chains if you want to dig through multiple lines)  
				Petal Crash garbage attack  
				puzzle fighter (normal piece but unclearable for some moves/time, they're still really not that different from ordinary pieces so idk)  
				tofu (gives opponent points when cleared)  
			Counter like:  
				T99 with garbage limit/delay, better for new players but too easy to defend against when you're good  
				Puyo/guideline  
			Damage formula:  
				same as guideline tetris; include petal crash tug of war for new players since they can't do chains to do damage  
		Each player could do different kinds of attacks, potentially tied to a character (do you pick your attack, or your opponent's attack?)  
		Coop:  
			shared board coop  
			shared score/ramp separate board coop  
			Could send each other helpful items  
			Twist + drop coop  

Tri words for mechanics or modes or titles:  
	trippy  
	triumph  
	trivial  
	hat trick  
	trillion  
	trickle  
	triage  
	trifle  
	trial  
	tricky  
	triouts  
	tribute  
	tri not to die  

Titles:  
	Trillion Trippy Triangles  
	Triangle Triumph  

Credits  
Joe  
Timo (Sound blaster, loud boy)  
Crimefighter, Shadow President Illuminati Beta Government (playtesting, came up with idea of edge match clear)  
Amy Rose Gronkowski (Had numerous sick ideas) (credit for Japanese localization that doesn't exist, or as a kickstarter backer which also does not exist) (Good opinion haver (likes Daikatana)) (balancing, no, the other kind of balancing)  
BethBat (playtesting)
Thank you indie developers who encourage others to make games:  
	Tim Ashley Jenkins  
	Dave Makes  
	Derek Yu  
	Andy Hull  
	Ryan Clark  
	Tom Francis  
	Bennett Foddy  
FMod license  
Godot license  